alright notice I mentioned in the end of
the at the end of the last video we're
now going to work on the left hand block
and that's going to become a mirror
image of the buttons on the right so
each button there should have a baseline
constraint to the button on its right so
seven to eight but also eight to nine
and so on down the rows so let's start
by doing that so we're going to start
with seven we're going to create a
baseline constraint to that date and
also as I mentioned we want to set a
baseline constraint from eight to nine
because obviously all the buttons we
want to have on the same or at the same
position horizontally right then four
we're going to paste constrain that to
the 5 then five you're going to create
the base constraint to six and you can
see that I'm not having to move through
widgets they're moving themselves as I'm
doing this
and then zero I'm quite a baseline
constraint to this one over here oops oh
you can see I actually didn't wait till
it flashed correctly then I'm going to
do it again in reposition that this does
happen sometimes you notice that I went
to dragon and it didn't work so you just
come back and do it again and it
normally fixes itself on the second time
all right last one now for the button
dot we want to do a base constraint for
that to the equal sign okay so we've
done that to the left hand block so next
what we need to do is we need to
constrain the right edge of each button
on the first column to the left edge of
the button to us right so it's 7 to 8 4
to 5 and so on let's go ahead and do
that so I'm going to start with 7 so 7
to 8 4 to 5 1 to 2 and then there's 0 to
the dot or the period okay so that's
those 4 done now to line them up
vertically each button in the second
column starting with 5 and working down
so if it's right edge constrained to the
right edge of the button above it
let's go ahead and do that so study with
the 5 constrain it to the right of the 8
and we get that stepped effect as I
mentioned before but we'll change the
margins for that shortly and then the
dot will constraint it - oops
like so and we just need to change the
margins to 0 again so 5 come over here
and change the margin to 0
same for the 2 well 2 0 and also same
for the dot change it to 0 like so so
we've removed the stepped effect from
that as well
all right so at this point now but Nate
should be able to be dragged sideways
and all the other buttons on that side
should follow so we just try that we can
see that we've got they're all moving
nicely now none of the buttons on this
side can be dragged up or down because
of the baseline constraints to their
right
okay you can't click on seven and move
that up and down because of the way that
we've first set up they're based on
constraints which is what we want here
all right so the final two constraints
now we need to do is we need to
constrain the left edge of button nine
to the guideline then the right edge of
button eight to the left of button 9
which will fix the left hand block in
place let's start with button 9 we want
to constrain the left edge of button on
to the guideline look so and then what
we want to do is get the right edge of
but Nate I can selecting that we want to
constrain that to the left edge of
button 9 not to the guideline like so so
that no fixes in left block in place now
I've connected button nose left edge to
the guide line we're going to just click
it we want the margin here to be 4 DP I
was just going to type in 4 here press
Enter
and we've already can edit our
constraint from the right edge of button
8 to the left edge of button 9 and we
want to just check that and make sure
that the width there the margin rather
is 8 I'm a combination of making that 8
and making this one for buck 9 means
that things line up nicely now right now
there's nothing constraining the button
group vertically so we want to constrain
the top of button 9 to the bottom of one
of the edit text widgets
it's imagine the weight so I'm gonna
click on that I'm going to constrain
this to the result like so and we just
want to make sure we've got a margin of
eight there which we have got and
obviously that constraints all the
buttons when I've done that so at this
point now we've got a grid of buttons
that are all constrained so that they
work as a single block of widgets with
button known as the widget that they're
ultimately constrained to then we can't
test this by dragging 9 around as it
moves you can see all the other buttons
are actually moving as well now if any
buttons get left behind then check that
they've been correctly constrained and
when you finish testing yes I have move
them back close to where you think they
should be and just check button 9 so
click on that and you want to check that
but noise top margin is on ATP mines
currently set to 69 it to eight and also
the left margin should be set to four
and by doing that that centers all the
buttons with the guide line appearing
right down the middle of both of them
all right so let's now try running this
just to check that our application still
works and if things look ok nervously
we'll start up in portrait mode and that
should be fine and should be no nothing
should have changed there because we
haven't been working on that to layout
but it's the landscape line that we want
to check to make sure that's now working
and looking okay so let's move over to
landscape and you can see that it's
looking quite good at the moment looks
quite centered now there's a widget we
haven't constrained and that's the
operation text view and that's appearing
at the top of the screen here in the top
left-hand corner which is the default
operation if there isn't any constraints
and by the way if you can't see it tap
one of the operation buttons to give it
some text so just slash will divider a
plasterer you will be able to see where
it is on the screen again top left is
where unconstrained widgets appear so we
need to obviously go back and constrain
that however you probably kind of have a
problem finding in the layout let's
actually just go back and have a look in
Android studio you can see it over here
so sometimes it can be very hard to tell
where that widgets gone or a widget like
that that hasn't got any text even
selecting it in the component tree may
not actually help in some cases trying
to select it can be quite finicky in
other words now I mentioned the tools
attribute earlier and this is a good use
for one of them the tools text so to
show you what I mean I'm going to click
on the component tree I'm gonna select
operation and you can see that -
obviously by doing that that's now while
showing but it's still very fiddly to
try and get access to so this is where
the tools attributes come in handy so
I've selected that using the component
tree and then what I want to do is enter
some text down here in text but this one
the one with the the tools or the wrench
or the spanner to the left of it now I'm
going to be very unimaginative and type
in operation and the widget will only
contain it will only have a single
character when we run the app but we
tried but when trying to fire
so slightly longer text will make that a
lot easier and you can see obviously the
word operation is appearing on the
layout now and just a reminder here the
text won't appear when we run the app
tools attributes the ones that are
marked with a wrench or spanner they're
only used in the designer all right so
at this point in time it's time for a
challenge all right so the the mini
challenge here is to provide suitable
constraints for the operation textview
widget that's appearing over at the top
left hand side of the screen when we run
the app in landscape now you can decide
exactly where you want it but my
solution will Center it in a space
between the left of button 7 and the
left edge of new number so that's your
challenge pause the video and see how
you go with that and when you're ready
to see my solution come back and I'll go
through that so pause the video now all
right so I'm going to do what I
suggested in the challenge so firstly
we're going to make sure that operation
is selected and we're going to constrain
the operation textview to the baseline
of button 7 let's go ahead and do that
like so next we're going to constrain
it's right edge to the left edge of
button 7 let's go ahead and do that and
then I'm going to constrain the left
edge to the left edge of a new number
over here like so so that's the textview
constraint both vertically and
horizontally and you just want to check
the margins to make sure that they are
centered you can see we've got 8 DP for
the left and ATP for the right so that's
fine new at this point of time you can
replace the tools text to better
represent the running app so we'll go
ahead and do that we'll change the
operation let's just use a plus as the
default because obviously that's going
to be more consistent to as to what it's
going to look like when running the or
when running the app so let's now just
run the app to make sure that this
actually works
it sounds constrained and looking
correct you can see we landscape mode if
we type something now we can see that
we've got that working nicely
all right so we'll go back now to
Android studio now even with a separate
layout for landscape mode the layout
won't fit on something like a nexus one
as we've designed it we're wasting a lot
of space in landscape now rather than
trying to reduce all the top margins to
close everything up it may make more
sense to leave a row of buttons and
redesign the keypad so that it's only 3
buttons deep now one advantage of having
a separate layer for the different
orientations is that you can take
advantage of the extra space available
rather than having to try and cram
everything into a narrow space but to
one disadvantage as I mentioned is that
you then have two layouts to maintain
you know whenever you make changes such
as adding another button alright so
we've now covered a lot of what you can
do with the constraint layout and if you
make a copy of the XML first you can
experiment with different designs until
you get something you're happy with them
also remember that control Z or command
Z on a mac will undo each successive
change that you've made so you can keep
pressing that to go back with all - all
the changes you've made and what I'm
going to do is finish this section with
a challenge but first I'm going to
switch over to the text tab for this
layout and I click on the reformat code
from the code menu just so it's nicely
formatted you can see that we've got a
message briefly appeared to say that -
it was already okay so let's have a look
at that challenge alright so one thing
that's missing from the calculator app
is the ability to enter negative numbers
for calculations now because of the way
that the operations button buttons work
you can't just use the minus button to
do that so the challenge is to add
another button to negate the input
number you know if there's no number
entered then the button should put a
minus sign in the input so that any
subsequent input will be negative
anytime the button is clicked the
numbers should be negated so a negative
number becomes positive and vice-versa
now if a blank input it should toggle a
leading minus sign on and off now if you
want to use text for the button for
example neg and now have a look at the
font properties at the bottom of the
panel to the right you may want to make
the font sizes smaller so the button can
be the same size as the current ones
now there's no need to center the button
grid but I will go through one way to do
that in the solution and just as a hint
it doesn't involve using another
guideline and another hint one button
can be centered and use this the key
button that all others are anchored to
all right so I'm going to stop this
video here and we'll go through my
solution to this challenge in the next
video